README.md, before:

# socket-flow

Straightforward async Websockets library for Rust! With a lot of examples available!

[![Apache licensed](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache-blue.svg)](https://github.com/felipemeriga/socket-flow/blob/main/LICENSE)
[![Crates.io](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/socket-flow.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/socket-flow)

## Introduction

This library is supposed to offer a simple implementation for websockets, so end-user could use this
to wrap a websockets server/client into their application, offering a smooth way of setting it up into his code.

It's an async library based on tokio runtime,
which uses a tokio TcpStream behind the scenes, using that as the starting point
to implement the standards of [WebSocket Protocol RFC](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6455),
performing handshakes, reading frames, parsing masks, handling opcodes and internal payload.

Can be used as a client or server,
returning a `WSConnection`, which implements the `Stream` trait,
so you can continuously consume incoming messages, or send messages.

The motivation behind this, was to offer a simple way of having a WebSockets connection over your application, using as a 
reference wide established libraries, like  [`tungstenite-rs`](https://github.com/snapview/tungstenite-rs) and [`tokio-tungstenite`](https://github.com/snapview/tokio-tungstenite/tree/master)

## Features

Most of all WebSockets RFC features are implemented, like:
- Handshake process, key parsing and generation
- OpCodes handling, like `Text`, `Binary`, `Ping`, `Pong` and `Continue`
- Multiple subscriptions
- Scalability
- Error handling
- It passes the autobahn-test-suite
- TLS Support

Features to be added:
- Compression

## Usage

Add this in your `Cargo.toml`:

```toml
[dependencies]
socket-flow = "*"
```

## Examples of usage

This repo has different examples and flexible ways of using its dependencies to design the 
code as end-user needs.

We have the option of configuring all from scratch, creating the TcpListener, and managing the websockets connections,
and we also have a plug-and-play option, which you can generate a Websockets server, with fewer lines of code.

### Plug and play server

This is a very practical example, because you can have a server with just calling `start_server` function, which returns
an `EventStream`, for consuming server events, like new connections, messages, errors and disconnections.

The `start_server` function also accepts a `rustls::ServerConfig` for enabling TLS in your server.

```rust
use futures::StreamExt;
use log::*;
use socket_flow::event::{Event, ID};
use socket_flow::server::start_server;
use socket_flow::split::WSWriter;
use std::collections::HashMap;

#[tokio::main]
async fn main() {
    env_logger::init();

    let port: u16 = 8080;
    match start_server(port, None).await {
        Ok(mut event_receiver) => {
            let mut clients: HashMap<ID, WSWriter> = HashMap::new();
            info!("Server started on address 127.0.0.1:{}", port);
            while let Some(event) = event_receiver.next().await {
                match event {
                    Event::NewClient(id, client_conn) => {
                        info!("New client {} connected", id);
                        clients.insert(id, client_conn);
                    }
                    Event::NewMessage(client_id, message) => {
                        info!("Message from client {}: {:?}", client_id, message);
                        let ws_writer = clients.get_mut(&client_id).unwrap();
                        ws_writer.send_message(message).await.unwrap();
                    }
                    Event::Disconnect(client_id) => {
                        info!("Client {} disconnected", client_id);
                        clients.remove(&client_id);
                    }
                    Event::Error(client_id, error) => {
                        error!("Error occurred for client {}: {:?}", client_id, error);
                    }
                }
            }
        }
        Err(err) => {
            eprintln!("Could not start the server due to: {:?}", err);
        }
    }
}
```

For running this example, you can clone the repo and execute:
```shell
cargo run --color=always --package socket-flow --example simple_server
```

### Echo server
Here is a echo-server example, that you can also find in: [Example](./examples/echo_server)

```rust
use futures::StreamExt;
use log::*;
use socket_flow::handshake::accept_async;
use socket_flow::stream::SocketFlowStream;
use std::net::SocketAddr;
use tokio::net::{TcpListener, TcpStream};

async fn handle_connection(_: SocketAddr, stream: TcpStream) {
    match accept_async(SocketFlowStream::Plain(stream)).await {
        Ok(mut ws_connection) => {
            while let Some(result) = ws_connection.next().await {
                match result {
                    Ok(message) => {
                        if ws_connection.send_message(message).await.is_err() {
                            error!("Failed to send message");
                            break;
                        }
                    }
                    Err(e) => {
                        error!("Received error from the stream: {}", e);
                        break;
                    }
                }
            }
        }
        Err(err) => error!("Error when performing handshake: {}", err),
    }
}

#[tokio::main]
async fn main() {
    env_logger::init();

    let addr = "127.0.0.1:9002";
    let listener = TcpListener::bind(&addr).await.expect("Can't listen");
    info!("Listening on: {}", addr);

    while let Ok((stream, peer)) = listener.accept().await {
        info!("Peer address: {}", peer);
        tokio::spawn(handle_connection(peer, stream));
    }
}
```

For running this example, you can clone the repo and execute:
```shell
cargo run --color=always --package socket-flow --example echo_server
```

This example, creates a TcpListener, binding it to a port, accepting connections, handling each of these connections
inside a tokio task, for handling clients concurrently. The handle_connection function, make sure the handshake process
is performed, returning a `WSConnection`, which implements `Stream` trait, where you can consume incoming data for this client, 
and perform write operations into the socket.
It includes error handling through `Result`.

### Simple client

Here is an example of how to run a client, that will perform some operations and disconnect gracefully:
```rust
use futures::StreamExt;
use log::*;
use rand::distr::Alphanumeric;
use rand::{thread_rng, Rng};
use socket_flow::handshake::connect_async;
use tokio::select;
use tokio::time::{interval, Duration};

async fn handle_connection(addr: &str) {
    match connect_async(addr, None).await {
        Ok(mut ws_connection) => {
            let mut ticker = interval(Duration::from_secs(5));
            // it will be used for closing the connection
            let mut counter = 0;

            loop {
                select! {
                    Some(result) = ws_connection.next() => {
                        match result {
                            Ok(message) => {
                                 info!("Received message: {}", message.as_text().unwrap());
                                counter = counter + 1;
                                // close the connection if 3 messages have already been sent and received
                                if counter >= 3 {
                                    if ws_connection.close_connection().await.is_err() {
                                         error!("Error occurred when closing connection");
                                    }
                                    break;
                                }
                            }
                            Err(err) => {
                                error!("Received error from the stream: {}", err);

                                break;
                            }
                        }
                    }
                    _ = ticker.tick() => {
                        let random_string = generate_random_string();
                        let binary_data = Vec::from(random_string);

                        if ws_connection.send(binary_data).await.is_err() {
                            eprintln!("Failed to send message");
                            break;
                        }
                    }
                }
            }
        }
        Err(err) => error!("Error when performing handshake: {}", err),
    }
}

#[tokio::main]
async fn main() {
    env_logger::init();
    handle_connection("ws://localhost:9002").await;
}

fn generate_random_string() -> String {
    thread_rng()
        .sample_iter(&Alphanumeric)
        .take(30)
        .map(char::from)
        .collect()
}
```

Since you need a server for testing the client, you can execute our echo-server example, and on another tab
execute the client example:
```shell
cargo run --color=always --package socket-flow --example client
```

In this example, the client will try to connect to `ws://127.0.0.1:9002`,
if the connection is established, it will start sending random strings every 5 seconds into the socket.
After sending three strings, it will close the connection gracefully and end its execution.

You can check more examples over [Examples](./examples).

## Testing

Socket-flow passes the [Autobahn Test Suite](https://github.com/crossbario/autobahn-testsuite) for
WebSockets.
Also, it has some internal tests, for ensuring reliability.

## TLS/SSL

For now, this library only accepts [tokio-rustls](https://github.com/rustls/tokio-rustls), as an adapter library
for adding TLS in your client/server implementation with socket-flow.

For checking how to set up TLS in server/client, and finding some examples, go to: [TLS Examples](./TLS.md).

## References

- [`tungstenite-rs`](https://github.com/snapview/tungstenite-rs)
- [`tokio-tungstenite`](https://github.com/snapview/tokio-tungstenite/tree/master)

Commit message:

feat: adding support to tokio-native-tls over a feature

README.md, after:

# socket-flow

Straightforward async Websockets library for Rust! With a lot of examples available!

[![Apache licensed](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache-blue.svg)](https://github.com/felipemeriga/socket-flow/blob/main/LICENSE)
[![Crates.io](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/socket-flow.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/socket-flow)

## Introduction

This library is supposed to offer a simple implementation for websockets, so end-user could use this
to wrap a websockets server/client into their application, offering a smooth way of setting it up into his code.

It's an async library based on tokio runtime,
which uses a tokio TcpStream behind the scenes, using that as the starting point
to implement the standards of [WebSocket Protocol RFC](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6455),
performing handshakes, reading frames, parsing masks, handling opcodes and internal payload.

Can be used as a client or server,
returning a `WSConnection`, which implements the `Stream` trait,
so you can continuously consume incoming messages, or send messages.

The motivation behind this, was to offer a simple way of having a WebSockets connection over your application, using as a 
reference wide established libraries, like  [`tungstenite-rs`](https://github.com/snapview/tungstenite-rs) and [`tokio-tungstenite`](https://github.com/snapview/tokio-tungstenite/tree/master)

## Features

Most of all WebSockets RFC features are implemented, like:
- Handshake process, key parsing and generation
- OpCodes handling, like `Text`, `Binary`, `Ping`, `Pong` and `Continue`
- Multiple subscriptions
- Scalability
- Error handling
- It passes the autobahn-test-suite
- TLS Support

Features to be added:
- Compression

## Usage

Add this in your `Cargo.toml`:

```toml
[dependencies]
socket-flow = "*"
```

## Examples of usage

This repo has different examples and flexible ways of using its dependencies to design the 
code as end-user needs.

We have the option of configuring all from scratch, creating the TcpListener, and managing the websockets connections,
and we also have a plug-and-play option, which you can generate a Websockets server, with fewer lines of code.

### Plug and play server

This is a very practical example, because you can have a server with just calling `start_server` function, which returns
an `EventStream`, for consuming server events, like new connections, messages, errors and disconnections.

You can also find in: [Example](https://github.com/felipemeriga/socket-flow/blob/main/examples/simple_server.rs)

The `start_server` function also accepts a `rustls::ServerConfig` for enabling TLS in your server.

```rust
use futures::StreamExt;
use log::*;
use socket_flow::event::{Event, ID};
use socket_flow::server::start_server;
use socket_flow::split::WSWriter;
use std::collections::HashMap;

#[tokio::main]
async fn main() {
    env_logger::init();

    let port: u16 = 8080;
    match start_server(port, None).await {
        Ok(mut event_receiver) => {
            let mut clients: HashMap<ID, WSWriter> = HashMap::new();
            info!("Server started on address 127.0.0.1:{}", port);
            while let Some(event) = event_receiver.next().await {
                match event {
                    Event::NewClient(id, client_conn) => {
                        info!("New client {} connected", id);
                        clients.insert(id, client_conn);
                    }
                    Event::NewMessage(client_id, message) => {
                        info!("Message from client {}: {:?}", client_id, message);
                        let ws_writer = clients.get_mut(&client_id).unwrap();
                        ws_writer.send_message(message).await.unwrap();
                    }
                    Event::Disconnect(client_id) => {
                        info!("Client {} disconnected", client_id);
                        clients.remove(&client_id);
                    }
                    Event::Error(client_id, error) => {
                        error!("Error occurred for client {}: {:?}", client_id, error);
                    }
                }
            }
        }
        Err(err) => {
            eprintln!("Could not start the server due to: {:?}", err);
        }
    }
}
```

For running this example, you can clone the repo and execute:
```shell
cargo run --color=always --package socket-flow --example simple_server
```

### Echo server
Here is an echo-server example that you can also find in:
[Example](https://github.com/felipemeriga/socket-flow/blob/main/examples/echo_server.rs)

```rust
use futures::StreamExt;
use log::*;
use socket_flow::handshake::accept_async;
use socket_flow::stream::SocketFlowStream;
use std::net::SocketAddr;
use tokio::net::{TcpListener, TcpStream};

async fn handle_connection(_: SocketAddr, stream: TcpStream) {
    match accept_async(SocketFlowStream::Plain(stream)).await {
        Ok(mut ws_connection) => {
            while let Some(result) = ws_connection.next().await {
                match result {
                    Ok(message) => {
                        if ws_connection.send_message(message).await.is_err() {
                            error!("Failed to send message");
                            break;
                        }
                    }
                    Err(e) => {
                        error!("Received error from the stream: {}", e);
                        break;
                    }
                }
            }
        }
        Err(err) => error!("Error when performing handshake: {}", err),
    }
}

#[tokio::main]
async fn main() {
    env_logger::init();

    let addr = "127.0.0.1:9002";
    let listener = TcpListener::bind(&addr).await.expect("Can't listen");
    info!("Listening on: {}", addr);

    while let Ok((stream, peer)) = listener.accept().await {
        info!("Peer address: {}", peer);
        tokio::spawn(handle_connection(peer, stream));
    }
}
```

For running this example, you can clone the repo and execute:
```shell
cargo run --color=always --package socket-flow --example echo_server
```

This example, creates a TcpListener, binding it to a port, accepting connections, handling each of these connections
inside a tokio task, for handling clients concurrently. The handle_connection function, make sure the handshake process
is performed, returning a `WSConnection`, which implements `Stream` trait, where you can consume incoming data for this client, 
and perform write operations into the socket.
It includes error handling through `Result`.

### Simple client

Here is an example of how to run a client, that will perform some operations and disconnect gracefully:
```rust
use futures::StreamExt;
use log::*;
use rand::distr::Alphanumeric;
use rand::{thread_rng, Rng};
use socket_flow::handshake::connect_async;
use tokio::select;
use tokio::time::{interval, Duration};

async fn handle_connection(addr: &str) {
    match connect_async(addr, None).await {
        Ok(mut ws_connection) => {
            let mut ticker = interval(Duration::from_secs(5));
            // it will be used for closing the connection
            let mut counter = 0;

            loop {
                select! {
                    Some(result) = ws_connection.next() => {
                        match result {
                            Ok(message) => {
                                 info!("Received message: {}", message.as_text().unwrap());
                                counter = counter + 1;
                                // close the connection if 3 messages have already been sent and received
                                if counter >= 3 {
                                    if ws_connection.close_connection().await.is_err() {
                                         error!("Error occurred when closing connection");
                                    }
                                    break;
                                }
                            }
                            Err(err) => {
                                error!("Received error from the stream: {}", err);

                                break;
                            }
                        }
                    }
                    _ = ticker.tick() => {
                        let random_string = generate_random_string();
                        let binary_data = Vec::from(random_string);

                        if ws_connection.send(binary_data).await.is_err() {
                            eprintln!("Failed to send message");
                            break;
                        }
                    }
                }
            }
        }
        Err(err) => error!("Error when performing handshake: {}", err),
    }
}

#[tokio::main]
async fn main() {
    env_logger::init();
    handle_connection("ws://localhost:9002").await;
}

fn generate_random_string() -> String {
    thread_rng()
        .sample_iter(&Alphanumeric)
        .take(30)
        .map(char::from)
        .collect()
}
```

Since you need a server for testing the client, you can execute our echo-server example, and on another tab
execute the client example:
```shell
cargo run --color=always --package socket-flow --example client
```

In this example, the client will try to connect to `ws://127.0.0.1:9002`,
if the connection is established, it will start sending random strings every 5 seconds into the socket.
After sending three strings, it will close the connection gracefully and end its execution.

You can check more examples over [Examples](https://github.com/felipemeriga/socket-flow/tree/main/examples).

## Testing

Socket-flow passes the [Autobahn Test Suite](https://github.com/crossbario/autobahn-testsuite) for
WebSockets.
Also, it has some internal tests, for ensuring reliability.

## TLS/SSL

By default, this library only accepts [tokio-rustls](https://github.com/rustls/tokio-rustls), as an adapter library
for adding TLS in your client/server implementation with socket-flow.

For checking how to set up TLS in server/client,
and finding some examples, go to: [TLS Examples](https://github.com/felipemeriga/socket-flow/blob/main/TLS.md).

In regard to `tokio-native-tls`,
is currently supported but under a feature that needs to be activated.
You can also check how it works, under the TLS examples link above.

## References

- [`tungstenite-rs`](https://github.com/snapview/tungstenite-rs)
- [`tokio-tungstenite`](https://github.com/snapview/tokio-tungstenite/tree/master)
- [`tokio-rustls`](https://github.com/rustls/tokio-rustls)
- [`tokio-native-tls`](https://github.com/tokio-rs/tls)
